A VOICE: O rocks.
PADDY DIGNAM: Earnestly Once I was in the employ of Mr J. H. Menton,
solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits, of 27 Bachelor's Walk.
Now I am defunct, the wall of the heart hypertrophied. Hard lines. The
poor wife was awfully cut up. How is she bearing it? Keep her off that
bottle of sherry. He looks round him A lamp. I must satisfy an
animal need. That buttermilk didn't agree with me.
The portly figure of John O'Connell, caretaker, stands forth, holding
a bunch of keys tied with crape. Beside him stands Father Coffey,
chaplain, toadbellied, wrynecked, in a surplice and bandanna nightcap,
holding sleepily a staff twisted poppies.
FATHER COFFEY: Yawns, then chants with a hoarse croak Namine.
Jacobs. Vobiscuits. Amen.
JOHN O'CONNELL: Foghorns stormily through his megaphone Dignam,
Patrick T, deceased.
PADDY DIGNAM: With pricked up ears, winces Overtones. He wriggles
forward and places an ear to the ground My master's voice
JOHN O'CONNELL: Burial docket letter number U. P. eightyfive thousand.
Field seventeen. House of Keys. Plot, one hundred and one.
Paddy Dignam listens with visible effort, thinking, his tail
stiffpointcd, his ears cocked.
PADDY DIGNAM: Pray for the repose of his soul.
He worms down through a coalhole, his brown habit trailing its tether
over rattling pebbles. After him toddles an obese grandfather rat on
fungus turtle paws under a grey carapace. Dignam's voice, muffled, is
heard baying under ground: Dignam's dead and gone below. Tom Rochford,
robinredbreasted, in cap and breeches, jumps from his twocolumned
machine.
TOM ROCHFORD: A hand to his breastbone, bows Reuben J. A florin I
find him. He fixes the manhole with a resolute stare My turn now on.
Follow me up to Carlow.
He executes a daredevil salmon leap in the air and is engulfed in the
coalhole. Two discs on the columns wobble, eyes of nought. All recedes.
Bloom plodges forward again through the sump. Kisses chirp amid
the rifts of fog a piano sounds. He stands before a lighted house,
listening. The kisses, winging from their bowers fly about him,
twittering, warbling, cooing.
THE KISSES: Warbling Leo Twittering Icky licky micky sticky for
Leo Cooing Coo coocoo Yummyyum, Womwom Warbling Big comebig
Pirouette Leopopold Twittering Leeolee Warbling O Leo
They rustle, flutter upon his garments, alight, bright giddy flecks,
silvery sequins.
BLOOM: A man's touch. Sad music. Church music. Perhaps here.
Zoe Higgins, a young whore in a sapphire slip, closed with three
bronze buckles, a slim black velvet fillet round her throat, nods, trips
down the steps and accosts him.
ZOE: Are you looking for someone? He's inside with his friend.
BLOOM: Is this Mrs Mack's?
ZOE: No, eightyone. Mrs Cohen's. You might go farther and fare worse.
Mother Slipperslapper. Familiarly She's on the job herself tonight
with the vet her tipster that gives her all the winners and pays for
her son in Oxford. Working overtime but her luck's turned today.
Suspiciously You're not his father, are you?
BLOOM: Not I
ZOE: You both in black. Has little mousey any tickles tonight?
His skin, alert, feels her fingertips approach. A hand glides over his
left thigh.
ZOE: How's the nuts?
BLOOM: Off side. Curiously they are on the right. Heavier, I suppose.
One in a million my tailor, Mesias, says.
ZOE: In sudden alarm You've a hard chancre.
BLOOM: Not likely.
ZOE: I feel it.
Her hand slides into his left trouser pocket and brings out a hard
black shrivelled potato. She regards it and Bloom with dumb moist
lips.
BLOOM: A talisman. Heirloom.
ZOE: For Zoe? For keeps? For being so nice, eh?
She puts the potato greedily into a pocket then links his arm,
cuddling him with supple warmth. He smiles uneasily. Slowly, note by
note, oriental music is played. He gazes in the tawny crystal of her
eyes, ringed with kohol. His smile softens.
ZOE: You'll know me the next time.
BLOOM: Forlornly I never loved a dear gazelle but it was sure to...
Gazelles are leaping, feeding on the mountains. Near are lakes. Round
their shores file shadows black of cedargroves. Aroma rises, a strong
hairgrowth of resin. It burns, the orient, a sky of sapphire, cleft by
the bronze flight of eagles. Under it lies the womancity nude, white,
still, cool, in luxury. A fountain murmurs among damask roses. Mammoth
roses murmur of scarlet winegrapes. A wine of shame, lust, blood exudes,
strangely murmuring.
ZOE: Murmuring singsong with the music, her odalisk lips lusciously
smeared with salve of swinefat and rosewater Schorach ani wenowach,
benoith Hierushaloim.
BLOOM: Fascinated I thought you were of good stock by your accent.
ZOE: And you know what thought did?
She bites his ear gently with little goldstopped teeth, sending on
him a cloying breath of stale garlic. The roses draw apart, disclose a
sepulchre of the gold of kings and their mouldering bones.
BLOOM: Draws back, mechanically caressing her right bub with a flat
awkward hand Are you a Dublin girl?
ZOE: Catches a stray hair deftly and twists it to her coil No bloody
fear. I'm English. Have you a swaggerroot?
BLOOM: As before Rarely smoke, dear. Cigar now and then. Childish
device. Lewdly The mouth can be better engaged than with a cylinder
of rank weed.
ZOE: Go on. Make a stump speech out of it.
BLOOM: In workman's corduroy overalls, black gansy with red floating
tie and apache cap Mankind is incorrigible. Sir Walter Ralegh brought
from the new world that potato and that weed, the one a killer of
pestilence by absorption, the other a poisoner of the ear, eye, heart,
memory, will understanding, all. That is to say he brought the poison
a hundred years before another person whose name I forget brought the
food. Suicide. Lies. All our habits. Why, look at our public life
Midnight chimes from distant steeples.
THE CHIMES: Turn again, Leopold Lord mayor of Dublin
BLOOM: In alderman's gown and chain Electors of Arran Quay, Inns
Quay, Rotunda, Mountjoy and North Dock, better run a tramline, I say,
from the cattlemarket to the river. That's the music of the future.
That's my programme. Cui bono? But our bucaneering Vanderdeckens in
their phantom ship of finance...
AN ELECTOR: Three times three for our future chief magistrate
The aurora borealis of the torchlight procession leaps.
THE TORCHBEARERS: Hooray
Several wellknown burgesses, city magnates and freemen of the city
shake hands with Bloom and congratulate him. Timothy Harrington, late
thrice Lord Mayor of Dublin, imposing in mayoral scarlet, gold chain and
white silk tie, confers with councillor Lorcan Sherlock, locum tenens.
They nod vigorously in agreement.
LATE LORD MAYOR HARRINGTON: In scarlet robe with mace, gold mayoral
chain and large white silk scarf That alderman sir Leo Bloom's speech
be printed at the expense of the ratepayers. That the house in which
he was born be ornamented with a commemorative tablet and that the
thoroughfare hitherto known as Cow Parlour off Cork street be henceforth
designated Boulevard Bloom.
COUNCILLOR LORCAN SHERLOCK: Carried unanimously.
BLOOM: Impassionedly These flying Dutchmen or lying Dutchmen as
they recline in their upholstered poop, casting dice, what reck they?
Machines is their cry, their chimera, their panacea. Laboursaving
apparatuses, supplanters, bugbears, manufactured monsters for mutual
murder, hideous hobgoblins produced by a horde of capitalistic lusts
upon our prostituted labour. The poor man starves while they are
grassing their royal mountain stags or shooting peasants and phartridges
in their purblind pomp of pelf and power. But their reign is rover for
rever and ever and ev...
Prolonged applause. Venetian masts, maypoles and festal arches spring
up. A streamer bearing the legends Cead Mile Failte and Mah Ttob
Melek Israel Spans the street. All the windows are thronged with
sightseers, chiefly ladies. Along the route the regiments of the
royal Dublin Fusiliers, the King's own Scottish Borderers, the Cameron
Highlanders and the Welsh Fusiliers standing to attention, keep back
the crowd. Boys from High school are perched on the lampposts,
telegraph poles, windowsills, cornices, gutters, chimneypots, railings,
rainspouts, whistling and cheering the pillar of the cloud appears. A
fife and drum band is heard in the distance playing the Kol Nidre. The
beaters approach with imperial eagles hoisted, trailing banners and
waving oriental palms. The chryselephantine papal standard rises high,
surrounded by pennons of the civic flag. The van of the procession
appears headed by John Howard Parnell, city marshal, in a chessboard
tabard, the Athlone Poursuivant and Ulster King of Arms. They are
followed by the Right Honourable Joseph Hutchinson, lord mayor of
Dublin, his lordship the lord mayor of Cork, their worships the
mayors of Limerick, Galway, Sligo and Waterford, twentyeight Irish
representative peers, sirdars, grandees and maharajahs bearing the cloth
of estate, the Dublin Metropolitan Fire Brigade, the chapter of the
saints of finance in their plutocratic order of precedence, the bishop
of Down and Connor, His Eminence Michael cardinal Logue, archbishop of
Armagh, primate of all Ireland, His Grace, the most reverend Dr William
Alexander, archbishop of Armagh, primate of all Ireland, the chief
rabbi, the presbyterian moderator, the heads of the baptist, anabaptist,
methodist and Moravian chapels and the honorary secretary of the society
of friends. After them march the guilds and trades and trainbands
with flying colours: coopers, bird fanciers, millwrights, newspaper
canvassers, law scriveners, masseurs, vintners, trussmakers,
chimneysweeps, lard refiners, tabinet and poplin weavers, farriers,
Italian warehousemen, church decorators, bootjack manufacturers,
undertakers, silk mercers, lapidaries, salesmasters, corkcutters,
assessors of fire losses, dyers and cleaners, export bottlers,
fellmongers, ticketwriters, heraldic seal engravers, horse repository
hands, bullion brokers, cricket and archery outfitters, riddlemakers,
egg and potato factors, hosiers and glovers, plumbing contractors. After
them march gentlemen of the bedchamber, Black Rod, Deputy Garter,
Gold Stick, the master of horse, the lord great chamberlain, the earl
marshal, the high constable carrying the sword of state, saint Stephen's
iron crown, the chalice and bible. Four buglers on foot blow a sennet.
Beefeaters reply, winding clarions of welcome. Under an arch of triumph
Bloom appears, bareheaded, in a crimson velvet mantle trimmed with
ermine, bearing Saint Edward's staff the orb and sceptre with the dove,
the curtana. He is seated on a milkwhite horse with long flowing crimson
tail, richly caparisoned, with golden headstall. Wild excitement. The
ladies from their balconies throw down rosepetals. The air is perfumed
with essences. The men cheer. Bloom's boys run amid the bystanders with
branches of hawthorn and wrenbushes.
BLOOM'S BOYS:
     The wren, the wren,
     The king of all birds,
     Saint Stephen's his day
     Was caught in the furze.
A BLACKSMITH: Murmurs For the honour of God And is that Bloom? He
scarcely looks thirtyone.
A PAVIOR AND FLAGGER: That's the famous Bloom now, the world's greatest
reformer. Hats off
All uncover their heads. Women whisper eagerly.
A MILLIONAIRESS: Richly Isn't he simply wonderful?
A NOBLEWOMAN: Nobly All that man has seen
A FEMINIST: Masculinely And done
A BELLHANGER: A classic face He has the forehead of a thinker.
Bloom's weather. A sunburst appears in the northwest.
THE BISHOP OF DOWN AND CONNOR: I here present your undoubted
emperor-president and king-chairman, the most serene and potent and very
puissant ruler of this realm. God save Leopold the First
ALL: God save Leopold the First
BLOOM: In dalmatic and purple mantle, to the bishop of Down and
Connor, with dignity Thanks, somewhat eminent sir.
WILLIAM, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH: In purple stock and shovel hat
Will you to your power cause law and mercy to be executed in all your
judgments in Ireland and territories thereunto belonging?
BLOOM: Placing his right hand on his testicles, swears So may the
Creator deal with me. All this I promise to do.
MICHAEL, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH: Pours a cruse of hairoil over Bloom's
head Gaudium magnum annuntio vobis. Habemus carneficem. Leopold,
Patrick, Andrew, David, George, be thou anointed
Bloom assumes a mantle of cloth of gold and puts on a ruby ring. He
ascends and stands on the stone of destiny. The representative peers put
on at the same time their twentyeight crowns. Joybells ring in Christ
church, Saint Patrick's, George's and gay Malahide. Mirus bazaar
fireworks go up from all sides with symbolical phallopyrotechnic
designs. The peers do homage, one by one, approaching and
genuflecting.
THE PEERS: I do become your liege man of life and limb to earthly
worship.
Bloom holds up his right hand on which sparkles the Koh-i-Noor
diamond. His palfrey neighs. Immediate silence. Wireless
intercontinental and interplanetary transmitters are set for reception
of message.
BLOOM: My subjects We hereby nominate our faithful charger Copula Felix
hereditary Grand Vizier and announce that we have this day repudiated
our former spouse and have bestowed our royal hand upon the princess
Selene, the splendour of night.
The former morganatic spouse of Bloom is hastily removed in the Black
Maria. The princess Selene, in moonblue robes, a silver crescent on her
head, descends from a Sedan chair, borne by two giants. An outburst of
cheering.
JOHN HOWARD PARNELL: Raises the royal standard Illustrious Bloom
Successor to my famous brother
BLOOM: Embraces John Howard Parnell We thank you from our heart,
John, for this right royal welcome to green Erin, the promised land of
our common ancestors.
The freedom of the city is presented to him embodied in a charter. The
keys of Dublin, crossed on a crimson cushion, are given to him. He shows
all that he is wearing green socks.
TOM KERNAN: You deserve it, your honour.
BLOOM: On this day twenty years ago we overcame the hereditary enemy at
Ladysmith. Our howitzers and camel swivel guns played on his lines with
telling effect. Half a league onward They charge All is lost now Do
we yield? No We drive them headlong Lo We charge Deploying to the
left our light horse swept across the heights of Plevna and, uttering
their warcry Bonafide Sabaoth, sabred the Saracen gunners to a man.
THE CHAPEL OF FREEMAN TYPESETTERS: Hear Hear
JOHN WYSE NOLAN: There's the man that got away James Stephens.
A BLUECOAT SCHOOLBOY: Bravo
AN OLD RESIDENT: You're a credit to your country, sir, that's what you
are.
AN APPLEWOMAN: He's a man like Ireland wants.
BLOOM: My beloved subjects, a new era is about to dawn. I, Bloom, tell
you verily it is even now at hand. Yea, on the word of a Bloom, ye shall
ere long enter into the golden city which is to be, the new Bloomusalem
in the Nova Hibernia of the future.
Thirtytwo workmen, wearing rosettes, from all the counties of Ireland,
under the guidance of Derwan the builder, construct the new Bloomusalem.
It is a colossal edifice with crystal roof, built in the shape of a
huge pork kidney, containing forty thousand rooms. In the course of its
extension several buildings and monuments are demolished. Government
offices are temporarily transferred to railway sheds. Numerous houses
are razed to the ground. The inhabitants are lodged in barrels and
boxes, all marked in red with the letters: L. B. several paupers
fill from a ladder. A part of the walls of Dublin, crowded with loyal
sightseers, collapses.
THE SIGHTSEERS: Dying Morituri te salutant. They die
A man in a brown macintosh springs up through a trapdoor. He points an
elongated finger at Bloom.
THE MAN IN THE MACINTOSH: Don't you believe a word he says. That man is
Leopold M'Intosh, the notorious fireraiser. His real name is Higgins.
BLOOM: Shoot him Dog of a christian So much for M'Intosh
A cannonshot. The man in the macintosh disappears. Bloom with his
sceptre strikes down poppies. The instantaneous deaths of many
powerful enemies, graziers, members of parliament, members of standing
committees, are reported. Bloom's bodyguard distribute Maundy money,
commemoration medals, loaves and fishes, temperance badges, expensive
Henry Clay cigars, free cowbones for soup, rubber preservatives in
sealed envelopes tied with gold thread, butter scotch, pineapple rock,
billets doux in the form of cocked hats, readymade suits, porringers
of toad in the hole, bottles of Jeyes' Fluid, purchase stamps, 40 days'
indulgences, spurious coins, dairyfed pork sausages, theatre passes,
season tickets available for all tramlines, coupons of the royal and
privileged Hungarian lottery, penny dinner counters, cheap reprints of
the World's Twelve Worst Books: Froggy And Fritz politic, Care of the
Baby infantilic, 50 Meals for 7/6 culinic, Was Jesus a Sun Myth?
historic, Expel that Pain medic, Infant's Compendium of the
Universe cosmic, Let's All Chortle hilaric, Canvasser's Vade Mecum
journalic, Loveletters of Mother Assistant erotic, Who's Who in
Space astric, Songs that Reached Our Heart melodic, Pennywise's Way
to Wealth parsimonic. A general rush and scramble. Women press forward
to touch the hem of Bloom's robe. The Lady Gwendolen Dubedat bursts
through the throng, leaps on his horse and kisses him on both cheeks
amid great acclamation. A magnesium flashlight photograph is taken.
Babes and sucklings are held up.
THE WOMEN: Little father Little father
THE BABES AND SUCKLINGS:
     Clap clap hands till Poldy comes home,
     Cakes in his pocket for Leo alone.
Bloom, bending down, pokes Baby Boardman gently in the stomach.
BABY BOARDMAN: Hiccups, curdled milk flowing from his mouth
Hajajaja.
BLOOM: Shaking hands with a blind stripling My more than Brother
Placing his arms round the shoulders of an old couple Dear old
friends He plays pussy fourcorners with ragged boys and girls
Peep Bopeep He wheels twins in a perambulator Ticktacktwo
wouldyousetashoe? He performs juggler's tricks, draws red, orange,
yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet silk handkerchiefs from his
mouth Roygbiv. 32 feet per second. He consoles a widow Absence
makes the heart grow younger. He dances the Highland fling with
grotesque antics Leg it, ye devils He kisses the bedsores of a
palsied veteran Honourable wounds He trips up a fit policeman
U. p: up. U. p: up. He whispers in the ear of a blushing waitress and
laughs kindly Ah, naughty, naughty He eats a raw turnip offered
him by Maurice Butterly, farmer Fine Splendid He refuses to
accept three shillings offered him by Joseph Hynes, journalist My dear
fellow, not at all He gives his coat to a beggar Please accept. He
takes part in a stomach race with elderly male and female cripples
Come on, boys Wriggle it, girls
THE CITIZEN: Choked with emotion, brushes aside a tear in his emerald
muffler May the good God bless him
The rams' horns sound for silence. The standard of Zion is hoisted.
BLOOM: Uncloaks impressively, revealing obesity, unrolls a paper and
reads solemnly Aleph Beth Ghimel Daleth Hagadah Tephilim Kosher Yom
Kippur Hanukah Roschaschana Beni Brith Bar Mitzvah Mazzoth Askenazim
Meshuggah Talith.
An official translation is read by Jimmy Henry, assistant town
clerk.
JIMMY HENRY: The Court of Conscience is now open. His Most Catholic
Majesty will now administer open air justice. Free medical and legal
advice, solution of doubles and other problems. All cordially invited.
Given at this our loyal city of Dublin in the year I of the Paradisiacal
Era.
PADDY LEONARD: What am I to do about my rates and taxes?
BLOOM: Pay them, my friend.
PADDY LEONARD: Thank you.
NOSEY FLYNN: Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance?
BLOOM: Obdurately Sirs, take notice that by the law of torts you are
bound over in your own recognisances for six months in the sum of five
pounds.
J. J. O'MOLLOY: A Daniel did I say? Nay A Peter O'Brien
NOSEY FLYNN: Where do I draw the five pounds?
PISSER BURKE: For bladder trouble?
BLOOM:
     Acid. nit. hydrochlor. dil., 20 minims
     Tinct. nux vom., 5 minims
     Extr. taraxel. iiq., 30 minims.
     Aq. dis. ter in die.
CHRIS CALLINAN: What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of
Aldebaran?
BLOOM: Pleased to hear from you, Chris. K. II.
JOE HYNES: Why aren't you in uniform?
BLOOM: When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the
Austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours?
BEN DOLLARD: Pansies?
BLOOM: Embellish beautify suburban gardens.
BEN DOLLARD: When twins arrive?
BLOOM: Father pater, dad starts thinking.
LARRY O'ROURKE: An eightday licence for my new premises. You remember
me, sir Leo, when you were in number seven. I'm sending around a dozen
of stout for the missus.
BLOOM: Coldly You have the advantage of me. Lady Bloom accepts no
presents.
CROFTON: This is indeed a festivity.
BLOOM: Solemnly You call it a festivity. I call it a sacrament.
ALEXANDER KEYES: When will we have our own house of keys?
BLOOM: I stand for the reform of municipal morals and the plain ten
commandments. New worlds for old. Union of all, jew, moslem and gentile.
Three acres and a cow for all children of nature. Saloon motor hearses.
Compulsory manual labour for all. All parks open to the public day and
night. Electric dishscrubbers. Tuberculosis, lunacy, war and mendicancy
must now cease. General amnesty, weekly carnival with masked licence,
bonuses for all, esperanto the universal language with universal
brotherhood. No more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical impostors.
Free money, free rent, free love and a free lay church in a free lay
state.
O'MADDEN BURKE: Free fox in a free henroost.
DAVY BYRNE: Yawning Iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach
BLOOM: Mixed races and mixed marriage.
LENEHAN: What about mixed bathing?
bloom explains to those near him his schemes for social regeneration.
All agree with him. The keeper of the Kildare Street Museum appears,
dragging a lorry on which are the shaking statues of several naked
goddesses, Venus Callipyge, Venus Pandemos, Venus Metempsychosis, and
plaster figures, also naked, representing the new nine muses, Commerce,
Operatic Music, Amor, Publicity, Manufacture, Liberty of Speech, Plural
Voting, Gastronomy, Private Hygiene, Seaside Concert Entertainments,
Painless Obstetrics and Astronomy for the People.
FATHER FARLEY: He is an episcopalian, an agnostic, an anythingarian
seeking to overthrow our holy faith.
MRS RIORDAN: Tears up her will I'm disappointed in you You bad man
MOTHER GROGAN: Removes her boot to throw it at Bloom You beast You
abominable person
NOSEY FLYNN: Give us a tune, Bloom. One of the old sweet songs.
BLOOM: With rollicking humour
     I vowed that I never would leave her,
     She turned out a cruel deceiver.
     With my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom.
HOPPY HOLOHAN: Good old Bloom There's nobody like him after all.
PADDY LEONARD: Stage Irishman
BLOOM: What railway opera is like a tramline in Gibraltar? The Rows of
Casteele.Laughter.
LENEHAN: Plagiarist Down with Bloom
THE VEILED SIBYL: Enthusiastically I'm a Bloomite and I glory in it.
I believe in him in spite of all. I'd give my life for him, the funniest
man on earth.
BLOOM: Winks at the bystanders I bet she's a bonny lassie.
THEODORE PUREFOY: In fishingcap and oilskin jacket He employs a
mechanical device to frustrate the sacred ends of nature.
THE VEILED SIBYL: Stabs herself My hero god She dies
Many most attractive and enthusiastic women also commit suicide by
stabbing, drowning, drinking prussic acid, aconite, arsenic, opening
their veins, refusing food, casting themselves under steamrollers, from
the top of Nelson's Pillar, into the great vat of Guinness's brewery,
asphyxiating themselves by placing their heads in gasovens, hanging
themselves in stylish garters, leaping from windows of different
storeys.
ALEXANDER J DOWIE: Violently Fellowchristians and antiBloomites, the
man called Bloom is from the roots of hell, a disgrace to christian
men. A fiendish libertine from his earliest years this stinking goat
of Mendes gave precocious signs of infantile debauchery, recalling the
cities of the plain, with a dissolute granddam. This vile hypocrite,
bronzed with infamy, is the white bull mentioned in the Apocalypse.
A worshipper of the Scarlet Woman, intrigue is the very breath of his
nostrils. The stake faggots and the caldron of boiling oil are for him.
Caliban
THE MOB: Lynch him Roast him He's as bad as Parnell was. Mr Fox
Mother Grogan throws her boot at Bloom. Several shopkeepers from upper
and lower Dorset street throw objects of little or no commercial value,
hambones, condensed milk tins, unsaleable cabbage, stale bread, sheep's
tails, odd pieces of fat.
BLOOM: Excitedly This is midsummer madness, some ghastly joke again.
By heaven, I am guiltless as the unsunned snow It was my brother Henry.
He is my double. He lives in number 2 Dolphin's Barn. Slander, the
viper, has wrongfully accused me. Fellowcountrymen, sgenl inn ban bata
coisde gan capall. I call on my old friend, Dr Malachi Mulligan, sex
specialist, to give medical testimony on my behalf.
DR MULLIGAN: In motor jerkin, green motorgoggles on his brow Dr
Bloom is bisexually abnormal. He has recently escaped from Dr Eustace's
private asylum for demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary
epilepsy is present, the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of
elephantiasis have been discovered among his ascendants. There are
marked symptoms of chronic exhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also
latent. He is prematurely bald from selfabuse, perversely idealistic in
consequence, a reformed rake, and has metal teeth. In consequence of a
family complex he has temporarily lost his memory and I believe him
to be more sinned against than sinning. I have made a pervaginal
examination and, after application of the acid test to 5427 anal,
axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I declare him to be virgo intacta.
Bloom holds his high grade hat over his genital organs.
DR MADDEN: Hypsospadia is also marked. In the interest of coming
generations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in
spirits of wine in the national teratological museum.
DR CROTTHERS: I have examined the patient's urine. It is albuminoid.
Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent.
DR PUNCH COSTELLO: The fetor judaicus is most perceptible.
DR DIXON: Reads a bill of health Professor Bloom is a finished
example of the new womanly man. His moral nature is simple and lovable.
Many have found him a dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint
fellow on the whole, coy though not feebleminded in the medical sense.
He has written a really beautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the court
missionary of the Reformed Priests' Protection Society which clears up
everything. He is practically a total abstainer and I can affirm that
he sleeps on a straw litter and eats the most Spartan food, cold dried
grocer's peas. He wears a hairshirt of pure Irish manufacture winter and
summer and scourges himself every Saturday. He was, I understand, at one
time a firstclass misdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another report
states that he was a very posthumous child. I appeal for clemency in the
name of the most sacred word our vocal organs have ever been called upon
to speak. He is about to have a baby.
General commotion and compassion. Women faint. A wealthy American
makes a street collection for Bloom. Gold and silver coins, blank
cheques, banknotes, jewels, treasury bonds, maturing bills of exchange,
I. O. U's, wedding rings, watchchains, lockets, necklaces and bracelets
are rapidly collected.
BLOOM: O, I so want to be a mother.
MRS THORNTON: In nursetender's gown Embrace me tight, dear. You'll
be soon over it. Tight, dear.
Bloom embraces her tightly and bears eight male yellow and white
children. They appear on a redcarpeted staircase adorned with expensive
plants. All the octuplets are handsome, with valuable metallic faces,
wellmade, respectably dressed and wellconducted, speaking five modern
languages fluently and interested in various arts and sciences. Each
has his name printed in legible letters on his shirtfront: Nasodoro,
Goldfinger, Chrysostomos, Maindoree, Silversmile, Silberselber,
Vifargent, Panargyros. They are immediately appointed to positions of
high public trust in several different countries as managing directors
of banks, traffic managers of railways, chairmen of limited liability
companies, vicechairmen of hotel syndicates.
A VOICE: Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David?
BLOOM: Darkly You have said it.
BROTHER BUZZ: Then perform a miracle like Father Charles.
BANTAM LYONS: Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger.
Bloom walks on a net, covers his left eye with his left ear, passes
through several walls, climbs Nelson's Pillar, hangs from the top ledge
by his eyelids, eats twelve dozen oysters shells included, heals
several sufferers from king's evil, contracts his face so as to resemble
many historical personages, Lord Beaconsfield, Lord Byron, Wat Tyler,
Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides, Moses Mendelssohn, Henry Irving, Rip
van Winkle, Kossuth, Jean Jacques Rousseau, Baron Leopold Rothschild,
Robinson Crusoe, Sherlock Holmes, Pasteur, turns each foot
simultaneously in different directions, bids the tide turn back,
eclipses the sun by extending his little finger.
BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO: In papal zouave's uniform, steel cuirasses as
breastplate, armplates, thighplates, legplates, large profane moustaches
and brown paper mitre Leopoldi autem generatio. Moses begat Noah
and Noah begat Eunuch and Eunuch begat O'Halloran and O'Halloran begat
Guggenheim and Guggenheim begat Agendath and Agendath begat Netaim and
Netaim begat Le Hirsch and Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat
MacKay and MacKay begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz
and Smerdoz begat Weiss and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begat
Adrianopoli and Adrianopoli begat Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat Lewy
Lawson and Lewy Lawson begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begat
O'Donnell Magnus and O'Donnell Magnus begat Christbaum and Christbaum
begat ben Maimun and ben Maimun begat Dusty Rhodes and Dusty Rhodes
begat Benamor and Benamor begat Jones-Smith and Jones-Smith begat
Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich begat Jasperstone and Jasperstone
begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme begat Szombathely and Szombathely
begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom et vocabitur nomen eius Emmanuel.
A DEADHAND: Writes on the wall Bloom is a cod.
CRAB: In bushranger's kit What did you do in the cattlecreep behind
Kilbarrack?
A FEMALE INFANT: Shakes a rattle And under Ballybough bridge?
A HOLLYBUSH: And in the devil's glen?
BLOOM: Blushes furiously all over from frons to nates, three tears
filling from his left eye Spare my past.
THE IRISH EVICTED TENANTS: In bodycoats, kneebreeches, with Donnybrook
fair shillelaghs Sjambok him
Bloom with asses' ears seats himself in the pillory with crossed arms,
his feet protruding. He whistles Don Giovanni, a cenar teco. Artane
orphans, joining hands, caper round him. Girls of the Prison Gate
Mission, joining hands, caper round in the opposite direction.
THE ARTANE ORPHANS:
     You hig, you hog, you dirty dog
     You think the ladies love you
     THE PRISON GATE GIRLS:
     If you see Kay
     Tell him he may
     See you in tea
     Tell him from me.
HORNBLOWER: In ephod and huntingcap, announces And he shall carry
the sins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the wilderness,
and to Lilith, the nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him,
yea, all from Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of Ham.
All the people cast soft pantomime stones at Bloom. Many bonafide
travellers and ownerless dogs come near him and defile him. Mastiansky
and Citron approach in gaberdines, wearing long earlocks. They wag their
beards at Bloom.
MASTIANSKY AND CITRON: Belial Laemlein of Istria, the false Messiah
Abulafia Recant
George R Mesias, Bloom's tailor, appears, a tailor's goose under his
arm, presenting a bill
MESIAS: To alteration one pair trousers eleven shillings.
BLOOM: Rubs his hands cheerfully Just like old times. Poor Bloom
Reuben J Dodd, blackbearded iscariot, bad shepherd, bearing on his
shoulders the drowned corpse of his son, approaches the pillory.
REUBEN J: Whispers hoarsely The squeak is out. A split is gone for
the flatties. Nip the first rattler.
THE FIRE BRIGADE: Pflaap
BROTHER BUZZ: Invests Bloom in a yellow habit with embroidery of
painted flames and high pointed hat. He places a bag of gunpowder round
his neck and hands him over to the civil power, saying Forgive him his
trespasses.
Lieutenant Myers of the Dublin Fire Brigade by general request sets
fire to Bloom. Lamentations.
THE CITIZEN: Thank heaven
BLOOM: In a seamless garment marked I. H. S. stands upright amid
phoenix flames Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin.
He exhibits to Dublin reporters traces of burning. The daughters of
Erin, in black garments, with large prayerbooks and long lighted candles
in their hands, kneel down and pray.
THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN:
     Kidney of Bloom, pray for us
     Flower of the Bath, pray for us
     Mentor of Menton, pray for us
     Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us
     Charitable Mason, pray for us
     Wandering Soap, pray for us
     Sweets of Sin, pray for us
     Music without Words, pray for us
     Reprover of the Citizen, pray for us
     Friend of all Frillies, pray for us
     Midwife Most Merciful, pray for us
     Potato Preservative against Plague and Pestilence, pray for us.
A choir of six hundred voices, conducted by Vincent O'brien, sings
the chorus from Handel's Messiah alleluia for the lord god omnipotent
reigneth, accompanied on the organ by Joseph Glynn. Bloom becomes mute,
shrunken, carbonised.
ZOE: Talk away till you're black in the face.
BLOOM: In caubeen with clay pipe stuck in the band, dusty brogues, an
emigrant's red handkerchief bundle in his hand, leading a black bogoak
pig by a sugaun, with a smile in his eye Let me be going now, woman of
the house, for by all the goats in Connemara I'm after having the
father and mother of a bating. With a tear in his eye All insanity.
Patriotism, sorrow for the dead, music, future of the race. To be or not
to be. Life's dream is o'er. End it peacefully. They can live on. He
gazes far away mournfully I am ruined. A few pastilles of aconite. The
blinds drawn. A letter. Then lie back to rest. He breathes softly No
more. I have lived. Fare. Farewell.
ZOE: Stiffly, her finger in her neckfillet Honest? Till the next
time. She sneers Suppose you got up the wrong side of the bed or
came too quick with your best girl. O, I can read your thoughts
BLOOM: Bitterly Man and woman, love, what is it? A cork and bottle.
I'm sick of it. Let everything rip.
ZOE: In sudden sulks I hate a rotter that's insincere. Give a
bleeding whore a chance.
BLOOM: Repentantly I am very disagreeable. You are a necessary evil.
Where are you from? London?
ZOE: Glibly Hog's Norton where the pigs plays the organs. I'm
Yorkshire born. She holds his hand which is feeling for her nipple
I say, Tommy Tittlemouse. Stop that and begin worse. Have you cash for a
short time? Ten shillings?
BLOOM: Smiles, nods slowly More, houri, more.
ZOE: And more's mother? She pats him offhandedly with velvet paws
Are you coming into the musicroom to see our new pianola? Come and I'll
peel off.
BLOOM: Feeling his occiput dubiously with the unparalleled
embarrassment of a harassed pedlar gauging the symmetry of her peeled
pears Somebody would be dreadfully jealous if she knew. The greeneyed
monster. Earnestly You know how difficult it is. I needn't tell you.
ZOE: Flattered What the eye can't see the heart can't grieve for.
She pats him Come.
BLOOM: Laughing witch The hand that rocks the cradle.
ZOE: Babby
BLOOM: In babylinen and pelisse, bigheaded, with a caul of dark hair,
fixes big eyes on her fluid slip and counts its bronze buckles with a
chubby finger, his moist tongue lolling and lisping One two tlee: tlee
tlwo tlone.
THE BUCKLES: Love me. Love me not. Love me.
ZOE: Silent means consent. With little parted talons she captures his
hand, her forefinger giving to his palm the passtouch of secret monitor,
luring him to doom. Hot hands cold gizzard.
He hesitates amid scents, music, temptations. She leads him towards
the steps, drawing him by the odour of her armpits, the vice of her
painted eyes, the rustle of her slip in whose sinuous folds lurks the
lion reek of all the male brutes that have possessed her.
THE MALE BRUTES: Exhaling sulphur of rut and dung and ramping in their
loosebox, faintly roaring, their drugged heads swaying to and fro
Good
Zoe and Bloom reach the doorway where two sister whores are seated.
They examine him curiously from under their pencilled brows and smile to
his hasty bow. He trips awkwardly.
ZOE: Her lucky hand instantly saving him Hoopsa Don't fall
upstairs.
BLOOM: The just man falls seven times. He stands aside at the
threshold After you is good manners.
ZOE: Ladies first, gentlemen after.
She crosses the threshold. He hesitates. She turns and, holding out
her hands, draws him over. He hops. On the antlered rack of the hall
hang a man 's hat and waterproof. Bloom uncovers himself but, seeing
them, frowns, then smiles, preoccupied. A door on the return landing is
flung open. A man in purple shirt and grey trousers, brownsocked, passes
with an ape's gait, his bald head and goatee beard upheld, hugging a
full waterjugjar, his twotailed black braces dangling at heels. Averting
his face quickly Bloom bends to examine on the halltable the spaniel
eyes of a running fox: then, his lifted head sniffing, follows Zoe
into the musicroom. A shade of mauve tissuepaper dims the light of the
chandelier. Round and round a moth flies, colliding, escaping. The
floor is covered with an oilcloth mosaic of jade and azure and cinnabar
rhomboids. Footmarks are stamped over it in all senses, heel to heel,
heel to hollow, toe to toe, feet locked, a morris of shuffling feet
without body phantoms, all in a scrimmage higgledypiggledy. The walls
are tapestried with a paper of yewfronds and clear glades. In the grate
is spread a screen of peacock feathers. Lynch squats crosslegged on
the hearthrug of matted hair, his cap back to the front. With a wand he
beats time slowly. Kitty Ricketts, a bony pallid whore in navy costume,
doeskin gloves rolled back from a coral wristlet, a chain purse in
her hand, sits perched on the edge of the table swinging her leg and
glancing at herself in the gilt mirror over the mantelpiece. A tag
of her corsetlace hangs slightly below her jacket. Lynch indicates
mockingly the couple at the piano.
KITTY: Coughs behind her hand She's a bit imbecillic. She signs
with a waggling forefinger Blemblem. Lynch lifts up her skirt and
white petticoat with his wand she settles them down quickly. Respect
yourself. She hiccups, then bends quickly her sailor hat under which
her hair glows, red with henna O, excuse
ZOE: More limelight, Charley. She goes to the chandelier and turns the
gas full cock
KITTY: Peers at the gasjet What ails it tonight?
LYNCH: Deeply Enter a ghost and hobgoblins.
ZOE: Clap on the back for Zoe.
The wand in Lynch's hand flashes: a brass poker. Stephen stands at
the pianola on which sprawl his hat and ashplant. With two fingers he
repeats once more the series of empty fifths. Florry Talbot, a blond
feeble goosefat whore in a tatterdemalion gown of mildewed strawberry,
lolls spreadeagle in the sofacorner, her limp forearm pendent over the
bolster, listening. A heavy stye droops over her sleepy eyelid.
KITTY: Hiccups again with a kick of her horsed foot O, excuse
ZOE: Promptly Your boy's thinking of you. Tie a knot on your shift.
Kitty Ricketts bends her head. Her boa uncoils, slides, glides over
her shoulder, back, arm, chair to the ground. Lynch lifts the curled
caterpillar on his wand. She snakes her neck, nestling. Stephen glances
behind at the squatted figure with its cap back to the front.
STEPHEN: As a matter of fact it is of no importance whether Benedetto
Marcello found it or made it. The rite is the poet's rest. It may be an
old hymn to Demeter or also illustrate Coela enarrant gloriam Domini.
It is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart as hyperphrygian and
mixolydian and of texts so divergent as priests haihooping round David's
that is Circe's or what am I saying Ceres' altar and David's tip
from the stable to his chief bassoonist about the alrightness of his
almightiness. Mais nom de nom, that is another pair of trousers.
Jetez la gourme. Faut que jeunesse se passe. He stops, points at
Lynch's cap, smiles, laughs Which side is your knowledge bump?
THE CAP: With saturnine spleen Bah It is because it is. Woman's
reason. Jewgreek is greekjew. Extremes meet. Death is the highest form
of life. Bah
STEPHEN: You remember fairly accurately all my errors, boasts, mistakes.
How long shall I continue to close my eyes to disloyalty? Whetstone
THE CAP: Bah
STEPHEN: Here's another for you. He frowns The reason is because
the fundamental and the dominant are separated by the greatest possible
interval which...
THE CAP: Which? Finish. You can't.
STEPHEN: With an effort Interval which. Is the greatest possible
ellipse. Consistent with. The ultimate return. The octave. Which.
THE CAP: Which?
Outside the gramophone begins to blare The Holy City.
STEPHEN: Abruptly What went forth to the ends of the world to
traverse not itself, God, the sun, Shakespeare, a commercial traveller,
having itself traversed in reality itself becomes that self. Wait a
moment. Wait a second. Damn that fellow's noise in the street. Self
which it itself was ineluctably preconditioned to become. Ecco
LYNCH: With a mocking whinny of laughter grins at Bloom and Zoe
Higgins What a learned speech, eh?
ZOE: Briskly God help your head, he knows more than you have
forgotten.
With obese stupidity Florry Talbot regards Stephen.
FLORRY: They say the last day is coming this summer.
KITTY: No
ZOE: Explodes in laughter Great unjust God
FLORRY: Offended Well, it was in the papers about Antichrist. O, my
foot's tickling.
Ragged barefoot newsboys, jogging a wagtail kite, patter past,
yelling.
THE NEWSBOYS: Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races. Sea
serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist.
Stephen turns and sees Bloom.
STEPHEN: A time, times and half a time.
Reuben I Antichrist, wandering jew, a clutching hand open on his
spine, stumps forward. Across his loins is slung a pilgrim's wallet from
which protrude promissory notes and dishonoured bills. Aloft over his
shoulder he bears a long boatpole from the hook of which the sodden
huddled mass of his only son, saved from Liffey waters, hangs from
the slack of its breeches. A hobgoblin in the image of Punch Costello,
hipshot, crookbacked, hydrocephalic, prognathic with receding forehead
and Ally Sloper nose, tumbles in somersaults through the gathering
darkness.
ALL: What?
THE HOBGOBLIN: His jaws chattering, capers to and fro, goggling his
eyes, squeaking, kangaroohopping with outstretched clutching arms, then
all at once thrusts his lipless face through the fork of his thighs Il
vient C'est moi L'homme qui rit L'homme primigene He whirls round
and round with dervish howls Sieurs et dames, faites vos jeux He
crouches juggling. Tiny roulette planets fly from his hands. Les jeux
sont faits The planets rush together, uttering crepitant cracks Rien
va plus The planets, buoyant balloons, sail swollen up and away. He
springs off into vacuum.
FLORRY: Sinking into torpor, crossing herself secretly The end of
the world
A female tepid effluvium leaks out from her. Nebulous obscurity
occupies space. Through the drifting fog without the gramophone blares
over coughs and feetshuffling.
THE GRAMOPHONE: Jerusalem
Open your gates and sing
Hosanna...
A rocket rushes up the sky and bursts. A white star fills from it,
proclaiming the consummation of all things and second coming of Elijah.
Along an infinite invisible tightrope taut from zenith to nadir the End
of the World, a twoheaded octopus in gillie's kilts, busby and tartan
filibegs, whirls through the murk, head over heels, in the form of the
Three Legs of Man.
THE END OF THE WORLD: with a Scotch accent Wha'll dance the keel
row, the keel row, the keel row?
Over the possing drift and choking breathcoughs, Elijah's voice, harsh
as a corncrake's, jars on high. Perspiring in a loose lawn surplice with
funnel sleeves he is seen, vergerfaced, above a rostrum about which the
banner of old glory is draped. He thumps the parapet.
ELIJAH: No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Jake Crane, Creole
Sue, Dove Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths
shut. Say, I am operating all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. God's
time is 12.25. Tell mother you'll be there. Rush your order and you play
a slick ace. Join on right here. Book through to eternity junction, the
nonstop run. Just one word more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? If the
second advent came to Coney Island are we ready? Florry Christ, Stephen
Christ, Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ, Lynch Christ, it's up to
you to sense that cosmic force. Have we cold feet about the cosmos?
No. Be on the side of the angels. Be a prism. You have that something
within, the higher self. You can rub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama,
an Ingersoll. Are you all in this vibration? I say you are. You once
nobble that, congregation, and a buck joyride to heaven becomes a back
number. You got me? It's a lifebrightener, sure. The hottest stuff ever
was. It's the whole pie with jam in. It's just the cutest snappiest line
out. It is immense, supersumptuous. It restores. It vibrates. I know
and I am some vibrator. Joking apart and, getting down to bedrock, A.
J. Christ Dowie and the harmonial philosophy, have you got that? O. K.
Seventyseven west sixtyninth street. Got me? That's it. You call me up
by sunphone any old time. Bumboosers, save your stamps. He shouts
Now then our glory song. All join heartily in the singing. Encore He
sings Jeru...
THE GRAMOPHONE: Drowning his voice Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh...
The disc rasps gratingly against the needle
THE THREE WHORES: Covering their ears, squawk Ahhkkk
ELIJAH: In rolledup shirtsleeves, black in the face, shouts at the top
of his voice, his arms uplifted Big Brother up there, Mr President,
you hear what I done just been saying to you. Certainly, I sort of
believe strong in you, Mr President. I certainly am thinking now Miss
Higgins and Miss Ricketts got religion way inside them. Certainly seems
to me I don't never see no wusser scared female than the way you been,
Miss Florry, just now as I done seed you. Mr President, you come long
and help me save our sisters dear. He winks at his audience Our Mr
President, he twig the whole lot and he aint saying nothing.
KITTY-KATE: I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred and did what I did
on Constitution hill. I was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in
the brown scapular. My mother's sister married a Montmorency. It was a
working plumber was my ruination when I was pure.
ZOE-FANNY: I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it.
FLORRY-TERESA: It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top of
Hennessy's three star. I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into the
bed.
STEPHEN: In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without
end. Blessed be the eight beatitudes.
The beatitudes, Dixon, Madden, Crotthers, Costello, Lenehan, Bannon,
Mulligan and Lynch in white surgical students' gowns, four abreast,
goosestepping, tramp fist past in noisy marching
THE BEATITUDES: Incoherently Beer beef battledog buybull businum
barnum buggerum bishop.
LYSTER: In quakergrey kneebreeches and broadbrimmed hat, says
discreetly He is our friend. I need not mention names. Seek thou the
light.
He corantos by. Best enters in hairdresser's attire, shinily
laundered, his locks in curlpapers. He leads John Eglinton who wears a
mandarin's kimono of Nankeen yellow, lizardlettered, and a high pagoda
hat.
BEST: Smiling, lifts the hat and displays a shaven poll from the crown
of which bristles a pigtail toupee tied with an orange topknot I was
just beautifying him, don't you know. A thing of beauty, don't you know,
Yeats says, or I mean, Keats says.
JOHN EGLINTON: Produces a greencapped dark lantern and flashes it
towards a corner: with carping accent Esthetics and cosmetics are for
the boudoir. I am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. Tanderagee
wants the facts and means to get them.
In the cone of the searchlight behind the coalscuttle, ollave,
holyeyed, the bearded figure of Mananaun Maclir broods, chin on knees.
He rises slowly. A cold seawind blows from his druid mouth. About his
head writhe eels and elvers. He is encrusted with weeds and shells. His
right hand holds a bicycle pump. His left hand grasps a huge crayfish by
its two talons.
MANANAUN MACLIR: With a voice of waves Aum Hek Wal Ak Lub Mor
Ma White yoghin of the gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos.
With a voice of whistling seawind Punarjanam patsypunjaub I won't
have my leg pulled. It has been said by one: beware the left, the cult
of Shakti. With a cry of stormbirds Shakti Shiva, darkhidden Father
He smites with his bicycle pump the crayfish in his left hand. On its
cooperative dial glow the twelve signs of the zodiac. He wails with
the vehemence of the ocean. Aum Baum Pyjaum I am the light of the
homestead I am the dreamery creamery butter.
A skeleton judashand strangles the light. The green light wanes to
mauve. The gasjet wails whistling.
THE GASJET: Pooah Pfuiiiiiii
Zoe runs to the chandelier and, crooking her leg, adjusts the
mantle.
ZOE: Who has a fag as I'm here?
LYNCH: Tossing a cigarette on to the table Here.
ZOE: Her head perched aside in mock pride Is that the way to hand
the pot to a lady? She stretches up to light the cigarette over the
flame, twirling it slowly, showing the brown tufts of her armpits. Lynch
with his poker lifts boldly a side of her slip. Bare from her garters up
her flesh appears under the sapphire a nixie's green. She puffs calmly
at her cigarette. Can you see the beautyspot of my behind?
LYNCH: I'm not looking
ZOE: Makes sheep's eyes No? You wouldn't do a less thing. Would you
suck a lemon?
Squinting in mock shame she glances with sidelong meaning at Bloom,
then twists round towards him, pulling her slip free of the poker. Blue
fluid again flows over her flesh. Bloom stands, smiling desirously,
twirling his thumbs. Kitty Ricketts licks her middle finger with her
spittle and, gazing in the mirror, smooths both eyebrows. Lipoti Virag,
basilicogrammate, chutes rapidly down through the chimneyflue and struts
two steps to the left on gawky pink stilts. He is sausaged into several
overcoats and wears a brown macintosh under which he holds a roll of
parchment. In his left eye flashes the monocle of Cashel Boyle O'connor
Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell. On his head is perched an Egyptian pshent.
Two quills project over his ears.
VIRAG: Heels together, bows My name is Virag Lipoti, of Szombathely.
He coughs thoughtfully, drily Promiscuous nakedness is much in
evidence hereabouts, eh? Inadvertently her backview revealed the fact
that she is not wearing those rather intimate garments of which you
are a particular devotee. The injection mark on the thigh I hope you
perceived? Good.
BLOOM: Granpapachi. But...
VIRAG: Number two on the other hand, she of the cherry rouge and
coiffeuse white, whose hair owes not a little to our tribal elixir of
gopherwood, is in walking costume and tightly staysed by her sit, I
should opine. Backbone in front, so to say. Correct me but I always
understood that the act so performed by skittish humans with glimpses of
lingerie appealed to you in virtue of its exhibitionististicicity. In a
word. Hippogriff. Am I right?
BLOOM: She is rather lean.
VIRAG: Not unpleasantly Absolutely Well observed and those pannier
pockets of the skirt and slightly pegtop effect are devised to suggest
bunchiness of hip. A new purchase at some monster sale for which a gull
has been mulcted. Meretricious finery to deceive the eye. Observe the
attention to details of dustspecks. Never put on you tomorrow what you
can wear today. Parallax With a nervous twitch of his head Did you
hear my brain go snap? Pollysyllabax
BLOOM: An elbow resting in a hand, a forefinger against his cheek
She seems sad.
VIRAG: Cynically, his weasel teeth bared yellow, draws down his left
eye with a finger and barks hoarsely Hoax Beware of the flapper
and bogus mournful. Lily of the alley. All possess bachelor's button
discovered by Rualdus Columbus. Tumble her. Columble her. Chameleon.
More genially Well then, permit me to draw your attention to item
number three. There is plenty of her visible to the naked eye. Observe
the mass of oxygenated vegetable matter on her skull. What ho, she
bumps The ugly duckling of the party, longcasted and deep in keel.
BLOOM: Regretfully When you come out without your gun.
VIRAG: We can do you all brands, mild, medium and strong. Pay your
money, take your choice. How happy could you be with either...
BLOOM: With...?
VIRAG: His tongue upcurling Lyum Look. Her beam is broad. She
is coated with quite a considerable layer of fat. Obviously mammal in
weight of bosom you remark that she has in front well to the fore two
protuberances of very respectable dimensions, inclined to fall in the
noonday soupplate, while on her rere lower down are two additional
protuberances, suggestive of potent rectum and tumescent for palpation,
which leave nothing to be desired save compactness. Such fleshy parts
are the product of careful nurture. When coopfattened their livers
reach an elephantine size. Pellets of new bread with fennygreek and
gumbenjamin swamped down by potions of green tea endow them during their
brief existence with natural pincushions of quite colossal blubber. That
suits your book, eh? Fleshhotpots of Egypt to hanker after. Wallow in
it. Lycopodium. His throat twitches Slapbang There he goes again.
BLOOM: The stye I dislike.
VIRAG: Arches his eyebrows Contact with a goldring, they say.
Argumentum ad feminam, as we said in old Rome and ancient Greece
in the consulship of Diplodocus and Ichthyosauros. For the rest Eve's
sovereign remedy. Not for sale. Hire only. Huguenot. He twitches It
is a funny sound. He coughs encouragingly But possibly it is only a
wart. I presume you shall have remembered what I will have taught you on
that head? Wheatenmeal with honey and nutmeg.
BLOOM: Reflecting Wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax. This
searching ordeal. It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a chapter of
accidents. Wait. I mean, wartsblood spreads warts, you said...
VIRAG: Severely, his nose hardhumped, his side eye winking Stop
twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk. See, you have forgotten.
Exercise your mnemotechnic. La causa e santa. Tara. Tara. Aside He
will surely remember.
BLOOM: Rosemary also did I understand you to say or willpower over
parasitic tissues. Then nay no I have an inkling. The touch of a
deadhand cures. Mnemo?
VIRAG: Excitedly I say so. I say so. E'en so. Technic. He taps his
parchmentroll energetically This book tells you how to act with all
descriptive particulars. Consult index for agitated fear of aconite,
melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla. Virag is going to talk about
amputation. Our old friend caustic. They must be starved. Snip off with
horsehair under the denned neck. But, to change the venue to the Bulgar
and the Basque, have you made up your mind whether you like or dislike
women in male habiliments? With a dry snigger You intended to devote
an entire year to the study of the religious problem and the summer
months of 1886 to square the circle and win that million. Pomegranate
From the sublime to the ridiculous is but a step. Pyjamas, let us say?
Or stockingette gussetted knickers, closed? Or, put we the case,
those complicated combinations, camiknickers? He crows derisively
Keekeereekee
Bloom surveys uncertainly the three whores then gazes at the veiled
mauve light, hearing the everflying moth.
BLOOM: I wanted then to have now concluded. Nightdress was never. Hence
this. But tomorrow is a new day will be. Past was is today. What now is
will then morrow as now was be past yester.
VIRAG: Prompts in a pig's whisper Insects of the day spend their
brief existence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of the
inferiorly pulchritudinous fumale possessing extendified pudendal nerve
in dorsal region. Pretty Poll His yellow parrotbeak gabbles nasally
They had a proverb in the Carpathians in or about the year five thousand
five hundred and fifty of our era. One tablespoonful of honey will
attract friend Bruin more than half a dozen barrels of first choice malt
vinegar. Bear's buzz bothers bees. But of this apart. At another time
we may resume. We were very pleased, we others. He coughs and, bending
his brow, rubs his nose thoughtfully with a scooping hand You shall
find that these night insects follow the light. An illusion for remember
their complex unadjustable eye. For all these knotty points see the
seventeenth book of my Fundamentals of Sexology or the Love Passion
which Doctor L.B. says is the book sensation of the year. Some, to
example, there are again whose movements are automatic. Perceive. That
is his appropriate sun. Nightbird nightsun nighttown. Chase me, Charley
He blows into bloom's ear Buzz
BLOOM: Bee or bluebottle too other day butting shadow on wall dazed self
then me wandered dazed down shirt good job I...
VIRAG: His face impassive, laughs in a rich feminine key Splendid
Spanish fly in his fly or mustard plaster on his dibble. He gobbles
gluttonously with turkey wattles Bubbly jock Bubbly jock Where are
we? Open Sesame Cometh forth He unrolls his parchment rapidly and
reads, his glowworm's nose running backwards over the letters which he
claws Stay, good friend. I bring thee thy answer. Redbank oysters will
shortly be upon us. I'm the best o'cook. Those succulent bivalves may
help us and the truffles of Perigord, tubers dislodged through mister
omnivorous porker, were unsurpassed in cases of nervous debility or
viragitis. Though they stink yet they sting. He wags his head with
